So, Google uses 30% of AI generated code
right now in their processes, but they
just banned AI from their coding
interviews. I know that sounds
backwards, right? Like, how does that
even make sense? But the thing is, I've
been digging deep into this from the
last few weeks. I mean, going into the
rabbit holes of this whole situation of
Google and Meta taking completely
opposite stances on the usage of AI in
coding interviews. And I realized
something that's going to change your
interview preparation for years to come
from now on. And honestly, it is not
something what you expect. It is not an
AI war. It is not about some dramatic
shift. Yes, I mean there will be shift
in how interviews are conducted and
stuff like that. But how all of this
impact your fundamental preparation is
what we're going to cover in this video.
Hey guys, I'm Anad and on this channel
we cover topics such as tech, AI,
entrepreneurship and self-improvement.
So if any of those things sound
interesting, please consider
subscribing. Enough of the shameless
plug. Let's get started.
So let me start with how we got to this
point. This whole saga started with one
kid who absolutely broke the tech
interview process. You know how in 2020
when COVID hit, everybody went remote
for interviews, right? Like all these
companies were using Zoom calls or
Google meet or whatever for their
interview processes and they would ask
the candidates to share screen and then
you know there was this live coding
round even multiple live coding rounds
for people to get into big tech and at
the same time around 2122 we have these
coding assistants like Chad GBT and
claude and Google Gemini and you know
Copilot whatever which would spit out
entire solutions for students. So you've
got sort of a perfect storm brewing.
You've got desperate job seekers with
these AI tools that can give them
complete solutions and companies taking
remote software engineering interviews.
And actually that translated to all the
industries, not only software
engineering. And then enters this
21-year-old kid from Colombia, Roy Lee.
He's failing all these fang big tech
interviews knowing that he's actually
built a lot of projects and he knows the
fundamentals. He knows the nuances and
he's a really good software engineer.
Still, he can't crack these interviews
because these puzzles are something that
do not simulate the real job
environment. So he goes and builds an
app called interview coder or interview
helper or whatever. The front web page
of the website literally says fleet code
and this thing was absolutely insane
like absolute beast on getting out
solutions. It could literally take
screenshots of the particular question
that was being asked in a live interview
analyze the coding problem using AI and
then give you the solution in real time
onto the screen while you are sharing
the screen and the solution would not be
visible to the interviewer. Amazing
right? like while you are talking to the
interviewer, the AI is giving you the
solutions from the screen itself. And as
expected within days, it turned into a
multi-million dollar business. But
obviously companies figured this out.
All the interview performances were
suddenly so good where everybody was
just giving the most optimal solution
and even if they were getting stuck,
even if the solution was not optimal,
even if they were able to explain their
thinking process, they were getting
hired. But now everybody was giving the
most perfect answer, you know, and the
interviewers obviously got sus. I mean
if I'm interviewing somebody and if I
know the answer is damn right on the
first go I'm going to dig deeper into
that you know to ask what does he
understand about the problem the data
structures the algorithms and all those
things and I can actually come to know
in 5 to 10 minutes if that particular
dude actually solved the problem by
himself or did he copy it from somebody
else but because his solution is correct
I can't say anything to him and that is
exactly what was happening these big
tech companies suddenly had a big
problem on their hands
so as these big tech companies got into
search for a solution to This two giant
players in the tech industry Google and
Meta. They both come up with different
approaches to tackle this. Google and
Alphabet CEO Sundar Pachai comes on the
Lex Freedman podcast. So Google is
basically saying we are going to go back
to the old ways. We are bringing back
whiteboarding, the logical thinking, the
in-person interviews because the only
way we can gauge that you know something
is when we can see that you are doing
it. Meanwhile, Meta takes a completely
different approach. Just a few days ago,
they put out an internal memo saying
that they will allow the usage of AI in
their coding interviews. And they won't
ask lead code style coding interviews.
Instead, they will ask students to use
AI to build full stack projects during
the interview. If not full stack, then
you know part of that stack or a part of
the app or a part of the feature.
They'll ask you to build using AI. They
said they're doing this because it is
more representative of the developer
environment our future employees will
work in. And this blew my mind because
these are the two smartest tech
companies on the planet and they are
solving the same problem in entirely two
different ways. One is going backwards
to the traditional methods of
whiteboarding and in-person interviews
while the other one is leaning forward
into the future. And this is where most
people get it wrong. They think that one
CEO is right and the other is wrong.
They think that it's Google versus Meta.
They're picking sides. You know, both
decisions reveal something much deeper
about how every company thinks about the
future of work in this age of AI. Every
damn company right now.
Remember the contradiction I mentioned
at the start of the video, Google
banning AI from interviews while using
it heavily in production or maybe for
their code generation if not for the
final production. Well, it turns out
they are not hypocritical at all. In
fact, it is actually brilliant and I'm
going to tell you why. One of the
smartest people on the planet are at the
Google campuses and they understand the
difference between using AI as a tool
versus using AI as a crutch. In
production, engineers know what they
need to code and they are using AI to
code faster, better, more efficiently.
Whereas in an interview, you are using
AI to figure out what to code in the
first place and they want you to be able
to know what to code in the first place.
That is what they're going to pay you
for. They're not trying to test your
typing speed. They are testing your
thinking process. And that thinking
process that I'm talking about that is
going to be worth millions of dollars in
this age of AI where everybody can just
spit out code. I mean think about it.
Most of the products that Google has
made. Google search, Gmail, maps, all
these things revolutionized products.
Even Google Chrome, people don't give
Chrome the credit. If Chrome was not
there, we would have less than half of
the web developers we have right now. I
mean Chrome did so much more than other
products for the development of the
internet technology. But anyways, that's
a topic for a separate video. What I
mean to say is for all those products
they did not come from optimizing any
existing solutions. There was somebody
some brilliant mind in one of the
boardrooms at Google who said you know
what if we implement this data structure
this way or you know what if we show
this data in this way what if we do this
with email or something like that. This
is the originality that AI cannot
replace. So while everybody in this
world is worried about contradiction
Google is actually preparing for a
future where the most valuable skill is
not the act of coding itself. It is
knowing what to code and why. And for
doing all that you need to learn to code
to not be able to type out code yourself
but to be able to help AI do that. Hence
whiteboarding interviews are back.
Okay. So which approach should I prepare
for? Should I prepare for whiteboarding
style interviews for Google or should I
use AI to build more projects and to get
more comfortable with AI to be able to
use AI in the coding interviews for
Meta? Because whatever these big tech
giants decide to do, every other company
just follow them in the industry. And I
know it feels very natural to, you know,
want to pick a side. But I am here to
tell you that you are missing a very
important point and that is exactly the
reason why I wanted to make this video.
You see most people think that both
these approaches are contradictory. So
they're trying to figure out which one
is right. Some people are doubling down
on their lead code grind where others
are you know building projects after
projects with the help of AI of course
to you know strengthen their portfolio
and to practice using building projects
with AI. But here is an insight that's
going to change your perspective on all
of this. And that is that whether you
are explaining your thought process to a
Google interviewer or you are
collaborating with AI in a meta
interview, you still need the same
foundational knowledge. You still need
to know why you chose a hashmap over an
array when you would use a BFS versus a
DFS. Obviously, you wouldn't have to
implement the BFS or DFS yourself
because AI can do that for you. But you
need to apply the brains to know when
you have to use which sort of sorting
algorithm, which sort of search
algorithm and system design for that
matter. How to design a system so that
an application can scale to millions
because scaling is something that is a
big problem in software engineering as
you know users increase and you have to
increase the scale of the software. And
so the difference isn't whether these
skills matter or not. It is about how
you demonstrate that you have them. So
on one hand, Google wants to see you
think independently through problems
while Meta wants to see you direct AI to
build a software. And both of these
things require a very deep understanding
of data structures, algorithm,
programming language, system design, all
that shebang. So the basics aren't going
away. And that is the exact reason why
I've been shouting on my channel that in
this age of AI, as these AI systems get
better, the importance of DSA, the
importance of, for example, you know, a
framework or or a system design. All
these basics they become more and more
important because if you are going to be
one of those VIP coder who builds an app
and who somehow manages to get a funding
and then you know now you have to scale
to a million users, thousands of users,
you'll be the one hiring software
engineers. If you are one of those
people who are going to be working at
these big tech companies which hire
billions of users every single day,
you're going to be the one who will be
implementing data structures and
algorithms every single day. Not in a
way that you do in elite code problem,
but you're surely going to be using
them. Because when everybody can
generate code, the people who understand
what code to generate, the people who
understand the generated code and why
all of it fits together, those are the
people who are irreplaceable. Look,
whether companies go towards the Google
route or the meta route or they come up
with their own interview process. You
need to know your stuff. The grind is
still real. You still need to get
comfortable with lead code premiums. You
still need to understand system design.
At least for junior level positions.
Now, you have to do a bit of system
design which was not required
previously. And you need to know your
languages and stuff because even if AI
can produce good, you need to be able to
understand that because at the end of
the day both these CEOs are preparing
for the same future. The one where human
judgment and AI capabilities work
together and the developers who thrive
are the ones who are going to navigate
this integration skillfully. So if this
breakdown help you what is happening in
the tech industry, please hit that like
button and if you want me to dive deeper
into how to actually prepare for any of
these types of interviews, please
comment down below. I always read all of
your comments. Subscribe if you haven't
already. As always, it means a lot. I'll
see you guys in the next one. Peace.